I think people feel like you can't make
mistakes and that is actually the
opposite of how I feel. I would much
rather people just try and make a
decision and then it's wrong and a week
later they adjust and change than they
spend like 3 months not making a
decision and by the time that that
decision was made the entire market has
changed. Our internal or has changed it
doesn't make sense. And so right now I
think my number one hiring criteria is
literally just bias for action. Like
that's it.
[music]
Hey everybody, this is an episode with
Winston Weinberg, the co-founder and CEO
of Harvey. It's a particularly good time
to interview Winston. Uh the company's
at 190 million run rate and that's 4x
from last year. They're at about 500
employees which about 2x from last year.
So the company is absolutely ripping.
He's at the head of a real rocket ship.
And what I was interested in
interviewing him for is I just wanted to
see what it was like when you're in a
company growing that fast and scaling
that fast. Like what's working, what's
not, how does it scale? We got into some
good stuff and he's got some real
counterintuitive takes on scaling, on
hiring, on building organizations,
on go to market. Uh he is a very
thoughtful fellow and I think you're
going to enjoy the episode. At the end
I'll come back and I'll give you some of
my personal takes on it. Hope you like
it. How does it feel to be the world's
newest at least on paper billionaire?
>> Is it is it newest? I actually not even
sure if that's true.
>> Who became a billionaire after you?
>> I'm sure like five to six people from
application layer companies. Not sure.
Um, no. I mean, I I I know we we had a a
thing in the New York Times and there's
something in the New York Post about
this recently. I mean, like Gabe and I
still live in the same apartment. Like
our lives like haven't changed much at
all. Um, and I know like I think like
some of those outlets kind of tried to
make it be like, "Oh my god, like even
billionaires can't afford like housing
in San Francisco, etc." or something
like that. You know, I mean, I I think
like there is definitely a housing
crisis in San Francisco. I don't think
like my co-founder and I are exactly
like the people that are massively
struggling with it. Um, but I will say
like we have lived in the same apartment
for like 3 years. I think it's more just
like why move? Like we like the
apartment, we like living together. Like
I don't know.
>> I think what's interesting to other CEOs
who are listening is I mean you're the
head of a rocket ship. Um,
and
it's an interesting time in the history
of the company to interview you.
What's it like? What is surprised you?
Like what is being a CEO in a company
like this that people would be surprised
about?
>> Yeah, I mean definitely is how chaotic
it is internally. That's for sure. Um, I
think that's like I think there's
there's two things I probably hear the
most is one
>> I think that we hopefully have done a
lot of the very like hard things right.
Um, and then a lot of the machine
building we it's still not there like
the machinery is still not there right.
So like the direction I think of travel
has been really good. We've made some
good product decisions etc. But like a
lot of the just like normal business
machinery is is not in place on the
product side and also on GTM. And so so
what I find is maybe two things when
people join is one they go oh I thought
this would be here like you guys are at
such a large scale you know
>> by the way that never goes away.
>> Yeah that probably never goes away right
like oh [__] I thought this would be
here. Um that happens a lot and then I'd
say the other thing too is like I hold
ourselves and and Gabe does too and the
rest of the leadership team does to
extremely high expectations. Like the
reality is I think we're executing well,
but also this is just like a once-
ina-lifetime time period for everyone.
And so I think that definitely something
that happens internally is you will get
folks that from the outside they'll say,
"Oh my god, like Harvey's doing so well,
all these things." And then internally
there'll be more, oh no, we're like not
going fast enough or we're not doing
right. There isn't tons of everyone sits
around every Friday and you know claps
etc. Um, and even at the end of the
year, right? Like my memo to start the
year was, "Hey, we did a good job last
year, but these are all the things that
we really now need to catch up to." Um,
and I really believe that like it it
feels like every six months you have to
like reearn your position in the market
and that trickles down through the whole
company where you have to reearn your
position at the company, including
myself like and every six months you
absolutely have to change and if you
don't, I think you just break. Okay, I
got a bunch of questions on that. When I
was CEO, I was always criticized
that I was very good at finding the
problems.
Uh very good at the worries
and fi in like obsessing over what was
going wrong and was not very good at
celebrating the successes. Um I got
every one of my reviews every year and I
tried to get better. I just wasn't good
at. Are you the same?
>> Yes. And I I think like part of it is
good, I think, and part of it is bad.
And I'll give maybe a couple examples of
it being good and bad. I think on the
the good side,
if if something's going super well, I
just don't think about it, right? And
I'm going to go spend time on something
else, right?
The bad side is sometimes that thing
that's going super well would be doing
10 times better if you spent more time
on it, right? And so there have been
instances in the past where I've said,
you know, I've kind of someone at the
company is doing incredibly well running
an org, right? And I spent a lot of time
with them, but I don't spend tons of
time like hands-on running that part of
the org, right? And then I realized
after like a month or so, wait, this org
could just be 10 times higher if we were
spending more resources on it, if we
promoted this person. and if we gave
them more under them, etc., right? And
so I think the the positive of it is it
really is you should spend the most
amount of your time unplugging or fixing
the biggest problem at the company,
right? And as we scale, a lot of what
I'm doing is just figuring out how do I
get bandwidth to actually do more and
more of those, right? The bad side of
that is sometimes there is something
that it could be accelerating way more
and you're overlooking it because you're
it's going really well, right? That I
think is the the thing I've gotten it
wrong is when I'm only paying attention
to the negative. So, it's not about
celebration. It's more like, wait, this
is working or this person is incredible
at their job. They should go to try
something even harder.
>> I've been on the journey with you for
the last 18 months or so. A lot has
changed
in in in very fast scaling like you're
doing. What has broken? Like what breaks
along the way? like at HubSpot just like
as we [laughter] feel like everything
broke like what are the things that
founders can learn
>> from your journey over the last couple
years. So, one of the first ones is
because you're and it ties back to what
you were saying because you're only
paying attention to what is going like
wrong right at the at the time at the
company there. Every four months I'd say
I get this like mental block that is
there's too many things going wrong on
at the company and I can't tend to all
of them. that happens every month.
>> And what that means, so far we've
survived them every time,
>> but what that means is I need to there's
a different leadership hire I need.
There's a different structure in the
company that I need or there's something
I need to cut from the company, right?
>> And so it almost is like you have to
just reinvent yourself as a founder
every like four months or so, otherwise
you are not going to be able to fix all
of the things that are going wrong at
the company. Um, and I feel that
pressure like it's weird like it I'm
like f and then once I do it I feel very
good for like the first month and the
second month I start feeling worse and
then the third and then the fourth and
all of a sudden it is like this pressure
system and you have to figure out some
way to like relieve that pressure system
and then it unlocks the next thing of
scale. So
>> okay for me
it was it often I don't know if this is
I'm just kind of testing if it feels the
same. For me it was kind of cranking
along. Problems would start, dissension
would start, things would get stuck. And
like the thing that would unstuck it for
me is a lot of the slowness or a lot of
the things that were stuck was because
decisions hadn't been made. Trade-offs
hadn't been made. And a lot of that was
my being unsure in delaying that
decision. So every once in a while, I
don't know if I was four months, be
like, I just need to make some
decisions. I might be wrong, but I need
to make decisions so the damn war can
move forward. Is that how you kind of
feel about it?
>> Yes, I the the only thing I would say is
for better or for worse, I make
decisions insanely fast. Um, which is
definitely can be a a pretty big
problem. What ends up happening is I
haven't decided who is the decision
maker,
>> right? And then that doesn't scale.
That's a huge problem. like almost every
problem that I run into, we have si like
six DRIs on and it's just it's
impossible. Like no one was going to
make a decision about this in the first
place.
>> Um and then I also think that one thing
that I I definitely messed up on it in
the beginning and I'm trying to get
better at is when you're a really fast
growing company and everyone feels like
there's a lot of pressure on you, I
think people feel like you can't make
mistakes. And that is actually the
opposite of how I feel. Like if I would
much rather people just try and make a
decision and then it's wrong and a week
later they adjust and change then they
spend like 3 months not making a
decision. And I think something I did
wrong and I am improving it is
>> sometimes people would think that they
were penalized or that I was upset about
something or leadership was upset about
something because they made the wrong
decision and it failed.
>> Not true. it's because they took six
months to make the decision and by the
time that that decision was made, the
entire market has changed. Our internal
orc has changed. It doesn't make sense.
And so right now, I think my number one
hiring criteria is literally just bias
for action. Like that's it. It is just
are you willing to take action and learn
from those actions and then make a
decision based off of that or iterate.
>> Okay, let's talk about that. You've
hired a lot of people. the exec team has
gone through a lot of change for you,
which I think is typical if you're
growing that fast. Just kind of walk
through some of those changes and what
you've learned about hiring and that
exec team. Like what are some of the
ahas that have hit you on the way on the
team? Like every founder I'm talking to,
they want to talk about their team and
it's like should I hire this person?
Should I hire someone from the outside?
Should I shoot this person?
>> Um what should the or structure look
like? You what what have you learned on
all that?
the okay so I can say the number one
thing that I've learned from like a
hiring perspective which is the main
thing that I ask seuite now to do if I'm
going to hire them or or VP as well is
can you draw out what your org would
look like in six in 3 months 6 months
and a year
>> it is insane how many people can't do
that like it is wild to me that that is
really hard for people to do
>> um and there's different levels of your
ability to do that right like there is
the ability of can you describe like oh
yeah I need a VP of this region and then
a VP of that region and things like that
whatever no it's actually like can you
map out every single one of those hires
what they do and can you think of who
would be a good person or who would be a
good fit for it right
>> that is like the number one thing that I
see when I hire leaders and they don't
scale is they're they do the same thing
that I do poorly or did poorly and I
think I'm getting better at which is
what is your leverage team around you,
right? Like when you join like what and
I think that there's a little bit of
founders are told like you don't want to
hire somebody who immediately wants to
go hire more people, right? Like that's
like oh they just want to build their
org. Totally. But at the same time, you
want them to create leverage as quickly
as humanly possible. And if they don't
create leverage for themselves,
especially in the like glue parts of
their function, right,
>> they're not going to be able to do the
the core competency of their function.
it's not gonna happen.
>> And I'd say that a lot of my time right
now is actually spent with my leadership
team figuring out who those lieutenants
are for them and helping us all hire
those. I had a problem with trust
uh building HubSpot. Like there's always
a very small group of people who I was
comfortable with like just go do it and
figure it out and I'm not really even
going to worry about it. And it
frustrated my team that I didn't have
deeper trust. Do you have trust issues?
>> Massive trust issues. [laughter]
Working on them. Working on them. Um,
definitely. I mean, it's it is hard to
let go. I also will say one thing I the
hires that I've done a good job on are
the ones where I had I was forced to do
the role for like three months. Yeah.
>> Um, I mean, I've never done this before.
Like, I've never started a company
before. And so if you have no idea, like
if you have spent zero time doing that
role, you are going to hire the wrong
person 100% of the time. Like there's
just no way, right?
>> Um
>> it's hard for me to then get out of
that. Right.
>> Right. Like it's hard for me to like,
okay, that was my job and now I have to
delegate part of that job.
>> It's hard for me. Um, I'd say I kind of
go back and forth on this of hire more
leaders and give them more
responsibility and then also expand the
group that I talk to daily, right? So,
one thing I'm trying to do a lot more of
is we have like a in this is really
simple things like in Slack we have a
leadership like seuite and then we have
VPs and heads of and some other folks
that are really good IC's etc. Right?
The leadership one is like seven people.
The other one is almost 30. Right? All
of my thoughts about the market, general
thoughts about the company, product
direction, all of those that I'm
constantly putting in there, I used to
put them into only the seven people. Now
I try to put 95% of it into the 30.
>> Why not the whole company?
>> So for the whole company, I I thought
about this too. I thought about just
constantly posting in general chat. The
problem with that is it just gets too
distracting.
>> Like we did that in the beginning of the
company and it it just creates too many
silos and and the reality is like some
of the stuff I post in there is like
crazy talk. Like it's like hey in like
two years we should do XYZ or like this
is a crazy idea and you don't want too
many like you want people that
understand that that doesn't mean okay
let's go build that from scratch, right?
Um you want to make sure that it's like
a little bit tighter of a group than
that. But I am trying to expand that
group as much as I possibly can. Um cuz
I don't want that. I don't believe in
the whole idea of you can never talk to
a skip level and you should never do
that. Like I think that's [__] Like
I I don't believe in that at all. Okay.
Let me just ask a couple of very
tactical questions that CEOs ask me all
the time.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh
you just brought up heads of as a title.
What the hell is that? Why do you have
them? What's wrong with director or VP
or manager? What the hell is a heads up?
Like look at a LinkedIn profile.
Somebody's a head of like what is that?
>> Um I like head of actually more than
director. Um I I think as simple as
possible
director makes it feel like you aren't
as responsible for the one thing in the
box basically and head of I feel like I
know it's a subtle difference but it
gives you more this person.
That's a good explanation. I get that
>> it's all ownership. Like I think of all
titles as just ownership because the
thing that everyone likes to do is just
kind of squirm them out of ownership,
right? And so if you can and it seems
like all of the problems are just it's
unclear who's in charge of this, right?
>> Um and even again like going back to the
I very much don't penalize mistakes, I
penalize in action. If there isn't a
head of for a particular thing, then
you're in trouble. By the way, I have an
analogy for you. The DRRi thing hit me
square in the head because one of my
employees said, you know, it's like it's
like a plant. If you're going away for a
month and you ask two friends to water
your plant,
>> the plant's definitely going to die.
It's either going to get no water or
just constant water and it's dead. Do
you feel is that the way you feel about
it?
>> Yeah, 100%. That's how I feel about it.
And then it takes it takes a long time.
And so I'll give you an example of I
think the job of a CEO is like actually
figuring out who is that person, right?
And so we were we were doing this pilot
process. There were a bunch of people
and I started with okay, should I like
should I say, hey, someone needs to be
in charge of this, right? That was
option one. That usually doesn't go that
well. Instead, it is this person should
be in charge of this, right? And
>> why why can't you get feedback on who
should be in charge? And
>> so you can do that, but sometimes that
takes a really long time, right? And and
what I've found is is a lot of times
it's the same as a product road map to
be honest. Like people when you say what
is the P 0? What does almost everyone do
on a product road map? Okay, so here's a
P 0, but then also there's a P1 and then
there's a P2 and actually let's have
three P 0. And actually recently, last
quarter, uh, someone I definitely made
fun of them for doing this. They made a
P00, [laughter]
>> okay?
>> Because they didn't want the P. They're
like, it's too hard to choose, right?
And and the reason people do this, and I
do this too, is you don't want to be
wrong. And if you say there's three
things that are P 0, you can hedge your
bets. And if you built the wrong thing
and you said, "Hey, this is a P 0." and
then a quarter goes by and no one bought
it or no one used it, you can be like,
you know, sorry, if you have three P 0,
you can be like, oh well, we built all
three and like some people kind of like
this one and some people kind of like
this and it's like very diffuse. If you
said at the beginning of the quarter,
this is the P 0. You built that and no
one used it. I mean,
>> you built the wrong thing. And it's the
same as the DRRi where I think people
get uncomfortable with having the DRRi
because then there's shared there's
shared ownership if you don't do it. and
you can say there's three people in
charge of it and then they can all go
like this and point at who whose fault
it is, right?
>> If you just say that person's in charge,
they're in charge. And it could, you
know, it might not be their fault, but
like at the end of the day, like when we
put up quarter numbers, when we have
product numbers or anything like that,
it's my fault no matter what. Like no
matter what, our performance as a
company is my fault no matter what. And
if you have a DRRi in each spot, there
is somebody who is like that and feels
that about each thing.
>> Yeah.
One of the things I noticed about being
a CEO is as the company got bigger, we
could get less things done. Yeah.
>> But we get them done very well. Have you
noticed that as well? And how many big
things are you working on right now?
>> Too many big things is the answer.
>> Okay. How many you got?
>> Um,
>> we would have four and I would try to
get it down to four.
>> Uh, like productwise, we have way too
many things. And I keep doing this. I
mean part of it is we're building a
platform and I do think you can build a
lot faster now and you can build these
things in parallel.
>> Um but we still I am by far the main
problem here of every quarter I end up
being like no no no we can do more we
can do more we can do more
>> and then as like company initiatives we
also do too many things. Um and like
we're in 60 countries operating across
we have in-house customers and then we
have law firms they have different needs
>> and we are honestly still trying to do
kind of it all. Um, and so I do think we
are getting better at saying no, this is
the P0 and that we do really well.
>> I don't think it's we're not at the
stage where we do four if we pushed it
down to four things. I think we do
incredibly well at that. We're still at
the stage where I think the P 0 will
always be done extremely well as long as
there's repetition and not changing the
P 0 every week, which I definitely do
sometimes. Okay.
>> Um, for sure. Um, for sure. Um, as long
as there's consistency about that P 0, I
think that we can do a P 0 well and then
we'll do everything else pretty well and
we'll do them well enough to eventually
they'll become a P 0, then you jump onto
that. And I do think you can take more
bets right now. Like you can you can
build really fast.
>> More [__] done now.
>> You can. Yeah.
>> Okay. I have a lot more questions.
There's two on the org.
There's two of the CEOs I work with that
are in the process of layering a very
good employee.
Um,
and there's a lot of stress that CEO is
feeling a lot of stress about that
layering about the signal and sense of
the company about that individual
employee losing that employee. You've
done a ton of this type of thing.
>> Mhm.
>> Advice to those CEOs who are in that
process. tell them about it. Uh, and
I've done this wrong too. Like I have
this is I mean it's it's actually
weirdly similar to the P 0 problem of I
think the reason people do this wrong is
because they're scared, right? Where
like they're scared of making the wrong
decision and they're scared of I mean a
lot of things, right? Like it takes time
to hire somebody really well like to
hire someone who's very good at this job
and do you want to bring them along for
that hiring process, right? And in some
instances I have, some instances I
haven't, right? And you have to
basically say this is how I do am doing
it going forward and this is my plan is
I am going to bring that person along
for the hiring process. And this maybe
goes back to what I said before which is
I think there are almost everyone that
is doing their part of the company can
do a better job than me. And if they
can't I am hiring someone who can. Like
I should not be the best person at every
single role at the company. God know
that's terrible. You're a terrible
leader if that's what you're doing. But
I do know how to do all of the roles to
at least a the company doesn't go to
zero state, right? And so number one is
make sure you understand every part of
your company so that if that person did
leave that superstar, you could take
their place while you hire the new
person. You need to be able to do that.
That will reduce your fear. Two, bring
that person along. If you really think
they're that good, it is worth the
chance that they will stay. And the only
way they will stay is if they trust and
respect you. And they have to trust that
their career growth can be really high
even with a new person on. And so you
just have to take that risk. Um, and
I've done I've done an okay job of this.
There's been instances where I've done a
really bad job.
>> Um, and the reason I've done the bad job
is because
>> I'm scared that that person is just
going to leave and we're going to have a
huge gap at the company. But at the same
time, I don't think that person is the
right for 3 months from now or 6 months
from now. we're going too fast. And you
you just you have to feel a confident in
your own ability to fill and b you just
have to trust them and bring them along
for the ride. And if you do bring them
along and they do want to stay, they're
going to even work. They're going to be
better at their job and they're going to
learn from that person. They're going to
act like they're going to treat them
like a mentor. I got layered twice in my
care. So I'm old. I got layered twice in
my career. Uh once
there was a lot of heads up and a lot of
feedback that I I I wasn't quite ready
and that we might bring someone over me
and then they did it and I was involved
in the interviewing process and I stayed
and I was happy and I learned a lot from
the person they brought over me.
>> Yeah.
>> In another instance I kind of got happy
talk and I thought I was doing pretty
well. Maybe didn't think I was killing
it but pretty well. And out of the blue
they said, "Hey, we're going to bring
someone over you." I I left in that
case. And my sense on this stuff is just
surprises are never good. Feedback's
underrated.
Um and overall, if I look at the history
through HubSpot and PTC on my whole
career, like when layering happens,
about 50% of the time that person who
gets layered a year later is gone.
>> Yeah. Well, it could be worse. gone is
actually potentially better than what
could happen, which is they're there but
they're not they're dragging everything
down. Yeah. Right. And and especially if
they were a star because that like if
they were a star then that's an
incredibly important part of your
business and they will really block the
person from joining, right? Like they
massively block that person. Um I don't
know. I I we've we're going through more
of those transitions right now. And
>> to me, if I could redo some of the
stuff, it would be bring them along even
more. I see.
>> Like even more. Bring them along and
just risk it.
>> Okay. Uh
you hired Katie Burke, HubSpot's chief
people officer.
>> Yep.
>> Uh
tell me about her, why you hired her,
and then you just promoted her to COO.
What does a COO do inside a company like
yours and should companies like yours?
Ben Horowitz wrote a really good book
called The Hard Thing About Hard Things
>> and he was very negative on the idea of
a COO
>> and I read his book about a month before
I pitched him at Andre and Horowitz and
I had just hired a COO Sherman great guy
and I needed a COO. I needed someone to
keep my trains on time and we went into
the pitch. my co-founder Dharmash,
myself and JD and we sat in the order JD
first then me and then Darmash and I had
forgotten that Ben didn't like the idea
of COOs
and we and we got to intros and the
first person with JD who had just
started the COO and Ben just was like
why and what are you doing and like was
kind of really negative on that idea. it
turned out to work for us. And Ben may
have changed his mind about this.
Actually, he's coming on the pod. I'm
gonna ask him about this. And he's
obviously very wise. Uh
what does your COO actually do?
>> Yeah. I mean, so a couple things here.
One, uh there are one nice thing about
GTM is you have objective measures,
right? So you can be like, okay, did
they hit these quotas, etc. Each and you
can kind of test, right? Harder on
engineering like sure you can do like
code shipped, etc., But not an insanely
good metric, right? One maybe metric for
Katie. Um, last year we just did like
our year in review or whatever today and
I sent I think it was like 85,000 slacks
or something like sent that that many
slacks.
>> She was she was I think second and it
was like 81,000
or something. Third place was in like
the 60s something like that. So there is
maybe a little bit of an objective
measure. Not that Slack scent is like
performance, but it does have some
indicator of like how involved you are
in the company, right? And she Katie
basically was was the COO probably 6
months ago, I would say, in all but
title, right? And what that I think it's
different for every company, right? So I
am definitely one of the founders who I
like being knowing about every single
part of the company. So like I like
thinking about operating cadences. I
like working on product. I also like
working on GTM. I like working in
partnerships. I work like working on
hiring. I like working on everything. So
it there are some COOs where what you do
is basically, hey, you go run GTM, you
go run every part of the business and
I'm only going to work on product and
that's what I'm doing. And that is
awesome and it works for a bunch of
folks.
>> There's a bunch of companies doing that.
>> Tons. And and at that point, I think the
role of the COO is quite literally just
like GTM. Like a lot a lot of it is GTM.
Like trains on time, sure. I think a lot
of it is they just they kind of
basically run GTM
>> that that's not what Katie's doing. What
Katie is doing is basically every other
part of the business um combined. And so
she her role is like a lot closer to a
partner like throughout the entire
process. So you know I have like an
operating cadence personally. I have a
it's called like the list. Um, and it
basically has all of the things like all
of my docs, all the things I'm tracking,
etc. And then it has like a daily and
then I copy paste and refresh it every
single day. Um, and you go through.
>> Wait, talk about a little more detail. I
want to hear that.
>> Yeah. Um, so I have a list that is
basically like I have focus or operating
cadence of the company, which is like
all of our quarterly goals, things like
that. And then I have uh like product
road maps, PRDS, everything like that.
And then I have things that I want to
remember. You're actually on there. I
have basically a quote from every
person. Yours is no. Uh it's just Brian
and then dash no is what it says
actually. [laughter] There's some other
ones on there, but I'll I'll tell you
you're actually on there. Um and and
then I have basically like metrics that
I'm tracking. So like renewal rates,
like product usage, DAU over MAU, and
then I have like star focus, which is
basically like one thing I care about a
lot right now is improving our the UX UI
of the company. So I'll put like every
single doc that is relevant to that and
to tracking that and any of the ideas,
right? And then I have my daily list,
right? And on that daily list, every
morning like when I wake up, I go
through that list and there's multiple
things on there that I send to Katie
>> and Katie is able to go through and
these aren't like small things, there's
big things and they're all
crossunctional
>> like what
>> um like we need to revamp our our pilot
process. Yeah.
>> Right. So that's a a really good example
where revamping pilot process revol is
engineering, product, design, GTM, post
sales. I mean it's literally every
marketing. It's every single part of
>> all of it. Right?
>> And I will like originally it was I
would just try to do all of that myself
and wrangle all of that. Right? Now it's
hey could you help me with this? Come up
with a decision and then bubble up three
decisions to me. And what ended up
happening from that process is like a
lot of people were involved. my chief
business officer was involved, CTO's
involved, had a product VP of product,
all of those people, right?
>> And then I still just made a decision at
the end of the day, right?
>> And if you can scale that, like if you
can get a COO who can start doing that,
you're basically just duplicating all of
the crossf functional initiatives that
you can handle. Like earlier on you
said, hey, how do you pick your
priorities? How do you make sure you're
doing all of these things? This is how
you increase leverage. Like this is how
you have someone that can help with
this. The other thing that she's
incredible at, because she did come from
being a chief people officer, is the
number one thing at our company is
hiring. And I don't mean hiring new
people necessarily. I mean hiring,
retention, making sure that there's one
person in charge of each role and making
sure that the people are really good are
not being pushed down by people above
them that are not as good. Right? In the
number one most important thing at the
company, nothing else is even close,
right?
>> She's really good at that. And so she's
very very helpful at thinking about what
is the org chart, what should this look
like, and who is that person, who should
be in charge of that, who should be
working across from XYZ. And she's very
good at also hiring, which is again like
the number one thing that I'm trying to
do.
>> Okay, let me ask you just a superh
tactical question. Do you also have some
kind of admin assistant? And what does
that admin do?
>> Yeah, so I have a chief of staff and the
the biggest difference
>> So not an assistant, a chief of staff.
>> Yeah, chief of staff. And she's also
incredible. And the biggest difference
is she manages everything that I need to
do. Like my entire life is personal, but
everything that I need to individually
do myself and Katie manages everything
that is crossf functional that I need to
do, right? So fix the pilots, right?
That is not something that my chief of
staff would do. That is something that
Katie would do, right? But if it is,
hey, I need to figure out how to change
my schedule and how to basically monitor
all of these different things. I want to
get these data feeds from all of these
different sources of the company to put
into my dashboard and I want to track
all those things. That is something
chief of staff would do.
>> Okay. What about like admin stuff like
somebody who books your travel, somebody
who you know get does all your [__] like
all your personal like there's so much.
>> Yeah, I have that as well. I have that
as well. Um I I took way too long to do
that. I was still I was book
>> So you have someone that does?
>> Yeah, I have someone now. Yeah, but for
a while I was booking my flights until
like two and a half years in or
something. Something like that. It was
so stupid. I mean it was the dumbest
thing ever. Like I remember uh I spent
there was the the day that I broke
actually and then I decided I needed to
hire someone for this was I spent 6
hours trying to book a British Airways
flight or something like that and it was
literally six hours and I it was just
all day and it was something about like
my card they thought it was fraud
because I had never you know it was like
a $6,000 flight or something crazy like
that from SF to to UK and I had never
paid for anything like that on my flight
or like personally and JP Morgan was
just like complete fraud and it was like
six hours and I thought back to that the
other day and I I went to Gabe and he
was just like what the [__] have you
been doing all day?
>> Yeah.
>> What is that?
>> Very interesting. Let's talk a bit about
let's go back in time
and your go to market.
Um you have some interesting ideas about
go to market uh in some thesis on it.
Can you talk about like how does a
random company that almost no one's
heard of a CEO who's doing it for the
first time that doesn't have some
amazing long history in legal? How do
you go about nailing your first five
customers?
>> Yeah. Uh, I mean it is just insane
repetition and trying things until they
work. The the thing that AI allows you
to do is personalize everything to an
insane degree. Um, and now there's
incredible tools like Clay and etc for
like actually doing this at scale, but
you could do it by yourself, right? So
the thing that I would used to do for
all lawyers is you can if you're a
litigator, everything needs to be filed
with a federal court if you're if you're
in federal court, right? And most big
law attorneys, you have to file
everything, right? So, it's online. It's
on this like document repository called
Pacer. And I would basically download
the last thing that they submitted to
court. And then I would try to come up
with prompts that were like, "This is
bad." [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Um and because they're a litigator and
I'm basically attacking something that
they just wrote. Y
>> they would instantly read the screen. Um
it was risky because sometimes the like
basically the system, you know, Harvey
would hallucinate and then it would just
be over. But the times that they got it
right, it was over. Like, and and if you
think about doing a Zoom with a lawyer,
it's like, I don't know how you got on
this Zoom. Like, I don't really pay
attention to this. Half of them were
doing this, like literally like this on
the Zoom, right? And then you bring up,
hey, I saw that you filed XYZ, you know,
motion to dismiss and in this case, do
you want to see Harvey analyze it and
say why it's a bad argument? And they
would jump at that and they would go
through everything. You can do on the
transactional side, too. you just, you
know, do like a merger agreement or
something like that on Edgar. Um, and so
a lot of it was personalized. I think
the other thing that we did on GTM is we
wanted to do the hardest ones first. So
>> tell me about that.
>> Yeah. So
>> kind of counterintuitive.
>> The thesis was kind of twofold. One is
I'm insane still crazy bullish on the
models improving and just basically all
of the underlying systems improving. I
know it sounds like duh. Now, uh, in
2022, it was not at all, right? It
really wasn't. Um, and so there are two
thesis here. One is the lower-end work.
It's just like, why not use CHBT, right?
For like way way like lower-end legal
work. It's like I've was concerned that
the models are just going to get so good
that it's like, yeah, I can review your
lease. Like that's just going to happen,
right? Um, and so building a bunch of a
solution for that at the end of the day,
I don't know how much value you would
add, right? So that's one. Two is if you
can figure out all of the massive use
cases that one of these giant firms has,
you kind of have like a perfect design
partner for the entire legal industry,
right? Like the reason these firms exist
is because when you're doing a, you
know, a massive M&A that involves like
60 businesses that operate in 60
countries, the work is insanely complex.
You need like an antitrust lawyer in
every single jurisdiction, right? That's
why big law firms exist. That's why you
have these crazy amount of specialists
in every area is because they
[clears throat] can basically jump onto
these massive massive transactions or
litigations.
>> And so really good design partners.
>> Their requirements are brutal.
>> It's compliance requirements. Why not go
after a mid-tier firm that doesn't have
to go through a long decision cycle? the
partner can decide herself and there's
not all this compliance and the deal
just happens and then move up. That's
the conventional wisdom. Why you're
torturing?
>> Well, I mean, so a couple things here.
Weirdly, revenue grow like revenue
growth like how fast can you gain
revenue was like not something we were
thinking about. Like another thing to
think about here is like I didn't know
what ARR was in the beginning.
>> Yep.
>> I didn't even know what that was. Like I
didn't even know of like oh company
health like net new AR quarter quarter
growth like things like that. And to me,
I was just thinking about how do you
build the best product and not just the
best product, but how do you like
actually show that this is going to
transform the industry? And the reality
is if you can get one of these top firms
that have just never ever talked about
adopting technology before, doing
anything cutting edge to do it, that
would be a wakeup call, like a wow, this
is actually going to be a change, right?
And it's the same on corporates. So now
like last quarter I think it was like
42% of our revenue actually came from
large corporates um not law firms right
and of those large corporates the
majority of them are fortune 100 not
even fortune 500 fortune 100 right and
the the reason why is because
>> if you can figure out how to sell to a
large bank and if you can get past
security review on a large bank and do
all the implementation on a large bank
you can sell everybody else right um and
so some of it is just do the hard thing
>> back to the first ones like so Many of
the CEOs I'm working with get their
first accounts because they work for
that company before or their VC knew
somebody at that company. It doesn't
sound like that was the game you played.
Like usually it's you'reworked into your
first 10 pilots. It sounds like you kind
of cold bold your way into your early
deals.
>> Uh 100% that. Um I mean the firm that I
worked at uh no no shade towards them,
but they were definitely like customer I
think like 200 or something like that.
Um, so it was definitely later later
down the down the line. Um, and I also
I've been practicing law for like eight
months. Um, so I didn't I I didn't have
any connections, right? Um, it really
was just could you get people that would
respond to your LinkedIn message? I mean
just LinkedIn like you message a
thousand people like you just keep doing
that like tens of thousands at this
point, right? Um, and I still get a lot
of lawyers that will I mean now it's
like hard to even go through my
LinkedIn, but like I still get all the
time like I I message them in 2022. They
message me back and be like, "Oh, love
Harvey, right?" or something like that.
Okay.
>> Happens all the time. Yeah. Happens all
the time. And so a lot of it was just
reach out to as many people as you
possibly can. If somebody gets on the
phone, you know, to get them to stop
doing this while they're on the call
with you, show them something personal.
I think a lot of CEOs miss this. The way
I described HubSpot's go to market was I
called it the pain factory.
And the way it worked was we built a
little application
called website grader where you put your
URL in and it gave you a score of 1 to
100 on how much mojo you had on the
internet, how many links you had, your
SEO power, your blog, your social and
um if I wanted to get into XYZ company,
I put XYZ.com in there. I get the
report. I would email it right to the
CEO and the CEO would be like, whoa, I
got a 64 out of 100. [laughter]
What the hell do I do to get to 100?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I don't have any marketing
sales rep like talk to this guy. So, I
immediately
got some credibility through it.
>> Um, and then the sales rep would show up
and like explain the report and show a
demo. It's like I you have your tooth
really hurts. You got a lot of pain in
there. Would you like me to fix it?
would you like me to like put a filling
in there and put the Mcn numb it? Yeah,
that's HubSpot. [laughter]
And so it's sort of the pain factory.
And I think what you did is exactly what
we did.
>> It's exactly the same thing. And it's
interesting because one thing I think
about a lot is like as we're selling to
in-house teams versus law firms. I think
about and I think about other AI
application layer companies and which
vertical they're in as like are you
trying to build something that automates
the core competency, right? And that is
going to cause friction. And what's
interesting is we had less friction
actually in the beginning because we
were weren't pitching to firms. We were
pitching to lawyers,
>> individual lawyers. Yeah.
>> And so their pain was I don't want to do
this particular piece of my job. Like I
don't want to go through tens of
thousands of documents and you know do
this massive like sign off thing, right?
Like closing checklist. I don't want to
do that, right? That's not a part fun
part about being a lawyer. Now you have
to kind of change your pitch because
you're not just pitching to the lawyers
like the users, you're pitching to the
law firms too and they law firms have
different pain points especially as AI
develops than just the lawyers
themselves do, right? So you have to
kind of like change your pitch. Um, and
that also impacts kind of what you're
building. Whereas on the in-house side,
you're still actually just pitching to
the lawyers. Like that's it. Like you're
you're just pitching to them, right? And
it's because you know you get like a big
a big customer like Bridgewwater or
something like that like Bridgewwater's
core competency like they're not trying
like they don't provide legal services
right that's not like what they are
doing. Yeah. and that helps the
business, right? And because of that, it
is seen as less threatening because it
is not the core competency of what
Bridgewwater does, right? Um, and I I
just find that interesting because you
kind of have to balance the pitch of
like this is good for your users and the
pain point for your users versus what is
actually the broader ecosystem painpoint
for the law firm or for the corporation
or whatever it is. And as AI I think
gets better and better, you got to think
about not just the individual user, but
what is the pain point of that industry?
>> Yep. Uh you didn't know anybody in these
big law firms. You also had never sold
anything.
>> Yeah.
>> Or built a go to market engine.
And so many of the CEOs I'm working with
are the same. Like by the way, you're
quite different than most of the CEOs I
work with because most of them are
software developers.
>> Yeah.
>> And deeply technical and product people.
and then they built something amazing.
You're like, I have to sell this thing.
[laughter]
Uh just talk a little bit about that and
how did you learn your craft and how did
you because my sense is one of your
superpowers is you can sell.
>> I I so I think there's a couple ways to
do it. One one thing I want to say in
the beginning too, the times that I'm
best at product is when I'm selling the
most.
>> Yes.
>> It's not even close. Apologize.
>> It's like actually not even close. Like
the times I did this in
>> I think it was like Q3 or Q2 of last
year. I spent too much time not talking
to customers and like sitting down in
San Francisco and being like this is the
road map for the next like year.
>> Yeah.
>> I missed like I missed so many product
things by doing that. Like I made wrong
product decisions. There were so many
things that were wrong. I do best by far
when I'm talking to customers 247 and
talk and working on product
simultaneously. If you do one or the
other, it actually like doesn't work at
all. So, I want to start by that. Um,
but the the the learning to sell thing I
think the most important thing is you
have to adjust to who your buyer is
personally. Like it is people reading.
Um, and there's like some instances
when, you know, you'll get on a call
with a big group, right? A big a big
group of folks, and it's very obvious
that one of the people on those calls is
like trying on purpose to make you sound
bad for a particular reason.
>> Like, you don't know why, but it's just
like very clear.
>> The number one thing to do is to meet
with that person one-on-one.
>> And no one wants to do that cuz
everyone's like, "Ah, that was
uncomfortable. I didn't enjoy that."
Right? But that's actually the person
that there's something else going on.
Whether it's like they tried to build
something in house and it didn't quite
work and you're kind of threatening to
them or whatever it is.
>> And then if you turn them around and
they're they become champions, it
completely changes everything. And so
it's kind of what you said before where
honestly it's like a lot of it is just
like find the thing that hurts and like
you don't want to end up doing almost
entirely. That's what you want to do.
Like if you push on the the two green
field stuff, it actually doesn't work.
>> Okay. A lot of my CEO founders, some are
in really sexy businesses and it's easy
to hire developers to build sexy stuff.
>> Yeah,
>> don't take this in any offense, but
building legal software [laughter]
doesn't feel that sexy. How are you able
to attract top tier engineering talent
on building software for lawyers? Yeah,
the biggest reason is because we have to
work. There are a lot of actually like
frontier things that we need to solve
that the big labs will maybe eventually
solve, but they aren't working on it
right now. I'll give you a really good
example of this. Um, so we launched
memory this morning, right? And this is
going to become super important for us.
>> There's a lot of ways to do memory. Um,
but the most important version for us is
almost everything that lawyers do is
document-based, right? Right now the way
that chatbt memory anthropic memory etc.
there is actually no like understanding
of these are the documents as artifacts
and things like that right
>> super irritating
>> super irritating but that's something
that they will solve eventually
>> if we don't solve that our product goes
to zero
>> right and so there's actually a tons of
frontier type things that I think these
application layer compan do
>> okay so they're hard problems
>> really hard problems that Everyone is
going to have to solve eventually, but
we have to solve sooner because of just
the nature of our customer base, right?
Another example of this is
>> we are we already have something where
you can basically collaborate with AI
systems in our platform and outside
folks. So not just like multiple people
from your own corporation working on
something, but I'm a big bank and I want
to collaborate with 10 law firms.
>> Yep. also something the big labs have
not solved yet right
>> and we first they haven't
>> they haven't super irritating and they
will to be clear I'm just saying there's
so many of these domains where I think
it's really exciting to work at the
company and building software there
because you're working on frontier
systems that for sure open AI and
anthropic are thinking about but going
back to our P zeros it's like it's way
down that
>> and so you get to work on that and you
might be able to solve that better as a
company I you should otherwise your
company's over better than they can
faster and that I think is really
exciting for people.
>> I want to talk about you a little bit.
>> Okay.
>> Something I noticed about you and then I
I I spoke to some people who work for
you and it's they I would ask when I ask
people like what tell me about Winston.
What's his superpower? The word
intensity is the first word that comes
to everyone's mouth. And I agree and
probably people watching this would
agree.
Where does that come from?
>> Um,
>> you're extremely motivated and extremely
intense.
Um, why do you have a chip on your
shoulder? Something from your childhood.
>> Um, I think it's a combination of
things. So, I always let my co-founder
whenever we do introd like intros, I
always let my co-founder go first. And
he has a awesome background. Um,
>> amazing. Yes.
>> Incredible background. And then I go I
did nothing for 27 years is like what my
well now I'm a little older but that was
basically my my background. Um I think
the reality is like I definitely had a
lot of problems when I was younger kind
of mental health problems and things
like that and I I was a terrible
student. Um didn't got kind of like
kicked out of a bunch of schools and
things like that and I didn't find
something that made me like want to get
up every morning and like apply myself.
And when I started this company, I had
no idea that this would happen. But I've
never felt this in my life. Like I've
just [clears throat] never felt I've
never felt this like overwhelming
obsession and excitement to get up every
morning ever.
>> And it is absolutely terrifying to me to
lose that. Like it is terrifying that I
will lose that.
>> And I think the problem with it is
that's not like, oh, the company's going
to go to zero. It's if we don't keep
moving and we don't basically capture
the opportunity that we have, I think
I'll be stuck in a situation again where
I don't feel that like I don't feel like
massively challenged. I don't feel like
what I'm getting up to do sucks. And
like one example of this is
>> I literally try I try every week to have
at least like two to three things that
make me super uncomfortable that I'm
doing. Um, and I don't think I feel good
unless I do those things. Like if I
>> were you always like that's pretty
intense and not that fun. Were you
always that way or like
>> No, I I I think maybe I might have been
but I didn't have the opportunities to
do those things or I maybe let me take
more ownership of it. I didn't put
myself in situations where I would find
those.
>> What changed inside of you that all of a
sudden you were
>> Yeah. Um, I still figuring that out to
be 100% honest. Like the the part that I
have figured out is what motivates me.
And that took me like
>> I think I figured out that out like last
year. Like it's pretty recent. Um, and
the thing that is insanely motivating to
me is
I just want to see how far I can go and
like keep going until I'm like people
this is just I can't do this. like I
break like it's just this is a scale or
this is a type of project or something
that I am not good enough to do and that
doesn't mean personally by the way like
this is something that has changed
massively for me is I used to think that
companies were very much like heroics
and it was like just you know it's like
the founder can the founder do it can
the founder do it can the founder do it
no like not being able to do it is you
can't hire people that are good enough
like you can't or you can't convince
people or you can't lead people well
enough right you There's so many
different ways why you can get stopped,
but it's not physically you can can't do
it yourself.
>> But that's what is massively motivating
to me is I think we have an insane
opportunity and I'm like terrified of
missing out on it and I'm terrified of
going back to how I felt before this.
>> Got it. Do you think there's a downside
of your intensity?
>> I think sometimes. Um I'm trying to get
better at it.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but I think Yeah. I think I mean uh a
I think I do that sometimes and I think
that sometimes people say hey that
actually like I didn't think I could do
that and I could and that made me feel
amazing like that is sometimes how it
happens sometimes I think I take it too
far um and I think it becomes a problem
and I think the other thing I need to do
is there are some situations and it is
very humbling to feel this as a founder
but it happens where the chance of
success is higher If I say this is the
goal and what we should do and then I
stop poking
>> and I let them do it. I'm serious. And
it is so hard and it's so humbling, but
once it happens a couple times, it gets
easier, right? Um but I I do feel that.
>> Okay. I've known you for a while now.
I'm really proud of you.
>> You come so far and matured so much and
you're doing such an excellent job. I'm
really happy to know you and happy
Sequoa investing you. I think they're
doing great.
>> Thank you, man.
>> I'm really proud.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah,
>> that means a lot.
>> Appreciate you coming on the pod, giving
the pearls of wisdom to all the CEOs out
there and go get them. Keep the rocket
ship going.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah,
>> thank you, man. Thanks.
>> Okay, I hope you like that episode.
We've done
six now. I think that's my favorite. For
some reason, it got a little dusty in
the room towards the end. You know, that
can happen. As you could tell, I know
Winston pretty well. And when I look at
CEOs these days and evaluate them, I
have a rubric that is my lock rubric.
The L is for lovable. The O is for
obsessed. The C is for chip on the
shoulder. And the K is for
knowledgeable. I remember first meeting
him. And at least to me, he's lovable.
Like if I were a younger me graduating
from school would want to go to work for
him. Um really obsessed. You saw that?
like he's literally a billionaire and
he's got roommates. Um I talked to him
over the holidays. He didn't have
holidays. He's pretty obsessed with
completely obsessed with what he's
doing. Uh you felt the chip on the
shoulder. Part of it is how he grew up.
But part of it also is that he's a non
software developer founder here in
Silicon Valley. And he brings that up a
lot. He brought it up a little in this
pod, but he's got a big chip on the
shoulder. And the is knowledgeable, very
knowledgeable guy. He's also very
humble. He knows he's made a lot of
mistakes. He faces those mistakes and he
tries to improve them. That's something
I love about great CEOs is
um the problem with being a CEO is
everyone tells you how great you are all
the time. And
>> [music]
>> um as it scales more that happens,
particularly if you're growing very very
fast and he's a bit immune to that. Um
and he's very self-critical and adjusts
a lot. And I think you saw that in the
pod. Anyway, I thought this was pretty
good. If you are enjoying the pod, I
think this is our sixth episode. Give me
a comment. We need some feedback on how
we're doing. Good, bad, indifferent.
[music]
I'd love to hear from you. See you on
the next one.